Design documentation for CodeEditor linting (#2752)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/code-editor/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

![The Code Editor's line 1 is highlighted and the user's cursor is next to a bracket. That bracket and its pair are both highlighted with a white border.](/assets/components/code-editor/code-editor-bracket-highlighting.png)

> 

Reviewer: Removing the extra line that was added
```suggestion
```

If you wish to create custom examples using the Code Editor, we publish all of the relevant syntax highlighting variables in the [HDS Components v2.0](https://www.figma.com/design/iweq3r2Pi8xiJfD9e6lOhF/HDS-Components-v2.0?node-id=67166-37020&t=gWdKy44MzTP4cTRo-1) library. However, due to the number of languages supported by the component, the color variables use a generic naming schema (e.g., cyan, red, purple) to remain as agnostic as possible when being applied to different languages.
For more details around syntax, visit the [specifications](/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).

## Linting
The Code Editor supports linting for JSON using [CodeMirror6](https://codemirror.net/examples/lint/). This feature highlights all errors with an underline and an icon next to the line number. Each icon has a tooltip explaining the error on the associated line. To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).

!!! Info 
This component is only available in Ember and not currently supported in Figma.
!!!

![](/assets/components/code-editor/codeeditor-linting-preview-tooltip.png)

> When linting is enabled, the CodeEditor will have a minimum height set by default to avoid the alert dialog covering all the content within the editor when opened. The minumum height for the CodeEditor with linting is 160px. The linting alert dialog is always 80px in height.

Reviewer 2: The tests found a lil spelling error

```suggestion
When linting is enabled, the CodeEditor will have a minimum height set by default to avoid the alert dialog covering all the content within the editor when opened. The minimum height for the CodeEditor with linting is 160px. The linting alert dialog is always 80px in height.
```

Reviewer 2: Looks like theres another spelling error, but its in @zamoore 's branch.
<img width="875" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-07 at 11 36 29 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/28eebcd7-c121-4ff5-9b2e-1587c9d9f3e9" />

Author: Ah, thanks for catching that! I corrected the error in my branch here

> ![Code Editor with linting enabled and errors present](/assets/components/code-editor/codeeditor-linting-preview.png)

Reviewer 2: Same as the previous image, the paragraph above does a great job explaining the same information as the image.

```suggestion
![](/assets/components/code-editor/codeeditor-linting-preview.png)
```

To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).

> ![Code Editor linting with errors present and a tooltip displayed](/assets/components/code-editor/codeeditor-linting-preview-dialog.png)

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Just to clarify to screen reader users a bit more on how the error dialog works.

```suggestion
![Code Editor with linting errors. There is a dialog on top of the bottom half of the Code Editor with several alerts that can be dismissed. The dialog does not block the user from interacting with the Code Editor content.](/assets/components/code-editor/codeeditor-linting-preview-dialog.png)
```

> If you require linting for addition languages [contact](/about/support) the HDS team.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: just to make the link text make more sense on its own.

```suggestion
If you require linting for addition languages [contact the HDS team](/about/support).
```

If you wish to create custom examples using the Code Editor, we publish all of the relevant syntax highlighting variables in the [HDS Components v2.0](https://www.figma.com/design/iweq3r2Pi8xiJfD9e6lOhF/HDS-Components-v2.0?node-id=67166-37020&t=gWdKy44MzTP4cTRo-1) library. However, due to the number of languages supported by the component, the color variables use a generic naming schema (e.g., cyan, red, purple) to remain as agnostic as possible when being applied to different languages.
For more details around syntax, visit the [specifications](/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).

## Linting

> The Code Editor supports linting for JSON using [CodeMirror6](https://codemirror.net/examples/lint/). This feature highlights all errors with an underline and an icon next to the line number. Each icon has a tooltip explaining the error on the associated line. To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).

Reviewer: Removing the duplicative sentence. 

```suggestion
The Code Editor supports linting for JSON using [CodeMirror6](https://codemirror.net/examples/lint/). This feature highlights all errors with an underline and an icon next to the line number. Each icon has a tooltip explaining the error on the associated line. 
```

If you wish to create custom examples using the Code Editor, we publish all of the relevant syntax highlighting variables in the [HDS Components v2.0](https://www.figma.com/design/iweq3r2Pi8xiJfD9e6lOhF/HDS-Components-v2.0?node-id=67166-37020&t=gWdKy44MzTP4cTRo-1) library. However, due to the number of languages supported by the component, the color variables use a generic naming schema (e.g., cyan, red, purple) to remain as agnostic as possible when being applied to different languages.
For more details around syntax, visit the [specifications](/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).

## Linting

> The Code Editor supports "linting" (currently only of JSON code) a user's code. This feature will highlight an error with an underline and display an icon next to the line number, each of which will show a tooltip on hover. To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).

Reviewer: It might be nice to add a link to an external resource for "linting" for folks who may not be as familiar with that.
 
```suggestion
The Code Editor supports linting for JSON. This feature highlights an error with an underline and displays an icon next to the line number, each of which shows a tooltip on hover. To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).
```

!!! Info 

> Linting within the Code Editor is only supported for JSON. If you require linting for addition languages [contact](/about/support) the HDS team.

Reviewer: I don't have strong feelings about this, but I don't feel like these details need to go in the info banner. The first sentence is also above; the second could live as a standalone below the previous paragraph.

Author: Thanks for the notes! I updated all the suggestions and for this info banner I kept the callout that this is not supported in Figma (which we have in info banners on other components) to make it clear at a glance that this is in code only. I moved the contact support info to the end of the section as well. Let me know what you think!

Reviewer: It looks like maybe something got reverted because I still see the first two sentences.

> This component is only available in Ember and not currently supported in Figma.

Reviewer: Do we have plans to ever support this in Figma? If not, you might want to consider removing the word "currently" so consumers don't think it's a feature we'll implement in the future. 

```suggestion
This component is only available in Ember and is not supported in Figma.
```

If you wish to create custom examples using the Code Editor, we publish all of the relevant syntax highlighting variables in the [HDS Components v2.0](https://www.figma.com/design/iweq3r2Pi8xiJfD9e6lOhF/HDS-Components-v2.0?node-id=67166-37020&t=gWdKy44MzTP4cTRo-1) library. However, due to the number of languages supported by the component, the color variables use a generic naming schema (e.g., cyan, red, purple) to remain as agnostic as possible when being applied to different languages.
For more details around syntax, visit the [specifications](/components/code-editor?tab=specifications).

> ## Linting (JSON language only)

Reviewer 3: [nit, non-blocking] Maybe we should remove "(JSON language only)" because its specified below? Also whenever we plan to expand this, we don't have to remove this?

Author: I was wondering that. I wanted to make it very obvious that this is only supported in JSON but maybe this is too much 😹

> ## Linting (JSON language only)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Linting (JSON language only)
```
I think it makes sense to have the content in this section. Maybe bump it down to an h3?

Author: I don't think this should live under Language, it's its own feature like line-highlight and it happens to only be applicable to JSON. Open to moving it around if everyone disagrees with me though

Reviewer 5: This follows the setup in the showcase. It is it's own feature, but it technically won't work without `language`. I'm indifferent I think.

> ## Linting (JSON language only)

Reviewer 6: I'll throw in a third opinion 🤷 :
- Remove "(JSON language only)" from the headline; I think the headline itself should focus specifically on the linting aspect
- Put a banner containing the information about linting only being available for JSON

This decouples the information like this:
- Headline: the actual feature being discussed
- Attribute: in a banner, where the feature is relevant
- Description: what the feature actually does

```suggestion
## Linting

!!! Info

Linting within the Code Editor is only supported for JSON. If you require linting for addition languages [contact](/about/support) the HDS team.
!!!
```

> The Code Editor has a feature available with the JSON language variant that will perform "linting" of a user's code. This feature will highlight an error with an underline and display an icon next to the line number, each of which will show a tooltip on hover. To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).

Reviewer 3: Maybe worth showing the breakdown of these features with images so designers have a point of reference for:

- Alert icon showing up in the number, 
- Tooltip showing up on hovering/focusing when interacting with the icon
- Showing the dialog opening up after using the keyboard shortcuts

Author: Great, that was one of my questions — whether we should give visuals for this or just have the text description because of how niche the application is. If others feel the same I will add a breakdown of the visuals here

Reviewer 4: +1 It would be beneficial to have some sort of visual here to demonstrate what is being written.

Reviewer 6: Also agree, would be nice to see a visual example of this.

> The Code Editor has a feature available with the JSON language variant that will perform "linting" of a user's code. This feature will highlight an error with an underline and display an icon next to the line number, each of which will show a tooltip on hover. To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).

Reviewer 6: [non-blocking suggestion] This is a bit more concise.

```suggestion
The Code Editor supports "linting" (currently only of JSON code) a user's code. This feature will highlight an error with an underline and display an icon next to the line number, each of which will show a tooltip on hover. To view all alerts in the editor, users can open a dialog using Ctrl-Shift-m (Cmd-Shift-m on macOS).
```
